# Source: https://seekingalpha.com/article/4890252-the-goldman-sachs-group-inc-gs-q1-2026-earnings-call-transcript (1Q26 Earnings Transcript PDF)
# Bank: Goldman sachs | Quarter: Q1 2026 | Earnings Date: 2026-04-14

Transcripts
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Q1
2026 Earnings Call Transcript
Apr 13, 2026 at 1:41 PM ET | The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Stock, GS.PR.A Stock,
GS.PR.C Stock, GS.PR.D Stock, GS:CA Stock
SA Transcripts
160.75K Followers
Q1: 2026-04-13 Earnings Summary
Insights
EPS of $17.55 beats by $1.31 | Revenue of $17.23B (14.37% Y/Y) beats by $293.83M
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) Q1 2026 Earnings Call April 13, 2026
9:30 AM EDT
Company Participants
David Solomon - Chairman & CEO
Denis Coleman - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Ebrahim Poonawala - BofA Securities, Research Division
L. Erika Penala - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research, LLC
Brennan Hawken - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Manan Gosalia - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Daniel Fannon - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Devin Ryan - Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Christopher McGratty - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Saul Martinez - HSBC Global Investment Research
Presentation
Operator
Good morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator
today. I would like to welcome everyone to the Goldman Sachs First Quarter
2026 Earnings Conference Call.
On behalf of Goldman Sachs, I will begin the call with the following disclaimer.
The earnings presentation can be found on the Investor Relations page of the
Goldman Sachs website and contains information on forward-looking
statements and non-GAAP measures. This audio cast is copyrighted material
of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and may not be duplicated, reproduced or
rebroadcast without consent.
This call is being recorded today, April 13, 2026. I will now turn the call over to
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David Solomon; and Chief Financial
Officer, Denis Coleman. Thank you. Mr. Solomon, you may begin your
conference.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thank you all for joining
us.
In the first quarter, we delivered a very strong performance, generating net
revenues of $17.2 billion, net earnings of $5.6 billion and earnings per share of
$17.55. All three of which were the second highest in the history of Goldman
Sachs. As a result, we delivered a return on equity of 19.8% and an ROTE of
21.3%. These results reflect the strength of our global franchise and the depth
of our relationships, and our ability to execute for clients, while maintaining a
strong focus on risk management in a highly dynamic environment.
2026 began with a degree of optimism. Markets hit record highs and
confidence continued to build with most clients focused on growth, strategic
activity and capital deployment. As we've said, things rarely move in a straight
line. And as the quarter progressed, the macro environment started to weigh
on sentiment, volatility increased meaningfully amid concerns around AI-driven
disruption in sectors like software, heightened uncertainty in parts of private
credit and the conflict in the Middle East. Against this backdrop, our
performance underscores the importance of having a scaled, diversified and
global franchise that can support clients across a wide range of market
conditions.
Operating as a leading global financial institution requires deep expertise,
long-term investment and a culture grounded in risk discipline. This is what
differentiates Goldman Sachs and what clients rely on, particularly in periods
of uncertainty. We pride ourselves in being a trusted adviser and providing
timely and differentiated insights. This quarter, we held large-scale calls and
events, reaching tens of thousands of clients across the firm. We also saw
elevated engagement with our digital channels, including Marquee, with
monthly average users up over 30% year-over-year and in our Global
Investment Research portal, which saw its second highest single day of client
activity in early March.
Beyond analysis and insights, our people operating as One Goldman Sachs
delivered for clients in real time as conditions evolved quickly. In Global
Banking & Markets, we delivered record quarterly revenues, reflecting strong
client engagement across our franchise. Elevated uncertainty led to clients --
led clients to actively reposition portfolios, driving strong flows across FICC
and Equities. We supported our clients' intermediation and financing needs
across asset classes, deploying our balance sheet in response to demand.
In our commodities franchise, we acted as an intermediary for our clients amid
significant moves in energy markets, including a record monthly increase for
Brent crude in March and price surges of 60% in European gas markets.
Importantly, the growth of our financing business has added further ballast to
our performance, reinforcing our ability to perform consistently across cycles.
In Investment Banking, we remain the #1 M&A adviser globally. Clients
continue to turn to Goldman Sachs for advice and expertise regarding their
most important strategic transactions, amid a backdrop of accelerating
technological change and industry disruption. This includes the announced
$43 billion merger of Unilever's Foods business with McCormick, Sysco's $29
billion acquisition of Jetro Restaurant Depot and Coterra Energy's $26 billion
sale to Devon Energy. While market conditions tempered execution for IPOs
and sponsor activity broadly, we believe that activity levels will rebound once
conditions stabilize. As you remember, our backlog closed 2025 at its highest
level in 4 years. Even with exceptionally strong revenue production, our
quarter end backlog remained extraordinarily robust.
In Asset & Wealth Management, clients continue to choose Goldman Sachs
for the quality of our advice and our long-standing investment track record. We
generated $62 billion in long-term fee-based inflows, including $22 billion in
Wealth Management flows. The consistent inflow momentum throughout the
quarter, including during the heightened volatility in March underscores the
strength of our client relationships built on trust and long-term performance.
We are pleased to have closed the acquisition of Innovator in the second
quarter, which adds an additional $31 billion in assets under supervision
across a suite of over 170 ETF focused on defined outcome strategies putting
us in the top 10 of global active ETF providers.
In alternatives, we raised $26 billion across asset classes with private credit
strategies generating $10 billion. We recognize that the private credit industry
has been an area of increased focus in recent months. Our 30-year track
record of performance in private credit is characterized by rigorous
underwriting, selective deployment and disciplined portfolio construction. In
our largest non-traded BDC, as an example, we saw net inflows of over 7%
this quarter, reflecting investor demand for experienced investment managers
who have navigated multiple rate and credit cycles.
Looking forward, our predominantly institutional drawdown structures as well
as the breadth of our origination funnel give us the flexibility to continue to
patiently and selectively invest capital. Overall, we feel good about the long-
term opportunity in private credit and our ability to deliver attractive risk-
adjusted returns for clients.
Let me spend a moment on capital and regulation more broadly. We've been
consistent in our view that a strong, well-capitalized banking system in the
U.S. is essential and that strength has been clearly demonstrated across
multiple stress periods. At the same time, we have also been clear that the
regulatory framework needs to be transparent and calibrated appropriately to
achieve its objectives. Getting this right matters for the real economy, a well-
calibrated framework enables banks to provide liquidity, support lending and
capital formation and serve clients more effectively. Ultimately, a strong U.S.
banking system supports growth, competitiveness and economic resilience.
Against that backdrop, we're encouraged by the direction of regulatory reform,
including the recent Basel III finalization and G-SIB surcharge reproposals.
While the rule-making process is still underway, and we plan to participate in
the comment period, we believe this direction is positive for the banking
system as a whole, better aligning regulatory outcomes with actual risk.
All in, we continue to see the potential for more constructive backdrop this
year. The combined effects of fiscal stimulus in developed economies, ongoing
AI-related capital investment and a more balanced regulatory agenda in the
U.S. are powerful forces. At the same time, the geopolitical landscape remains
very complex, and the ultimate impact of higher energy prices on inflation and
growth is yet to be determined. We believe Goldman Sachs is extremely well
positioned to navigate this current environment.
Beyond the short term, we are also investing for long-term growth, including
through One Goldman Sachs 3.0. As I mentioned, clients seek our views and
analysis around a range of topics, including AI, and we were able to speak to
these trends from firsthand experience as we thoughtfully implemented new
technologies across our 6 initial work streams and around the firm more
broadly. We remain confident that over time, One GS 3.0 will drive stronger
operating leverage, greater resilience and improved efficiency and returns and
allow us to continually elevate service to our clients.
These efforts build on the strength that differentiates Goldman Sachs. As we
demonstrated this quarter, our deep client relationships, global platform and
strong risk culture position us to serve clients with excellence, while creating
long-term value for shareholders.
With that, I'll turn it over to Denis to walk through our financial results in more
detail.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, David, and good morning.
Let's start with our results on Page 1 of the presentation. In the first quarter,
we generated our second highest net revenues of $17.2 billion as well as our
second highest earnings per share of $17.55, which drove an ROE of 19.8%
and an ROTE of 21.3%.
Let's turn to performance by segment, starting on Page 3. Global Banking &
Markets produced record revenues of $12.7 billion in the first quarter and
generated an ROE of over 22%.
Turning to Page 4. Advisory revenues of $1.5 billion rose 89% year-over-year
on higher completed volumes. We remain #1 in the league tables for M&A with
a lead of $150 billion in announced volumes versus our closest peer.
Equity underwriting revenues of $535 million were up 45% year-over-year on
better convertibles results, while debt underwriting revenues of $811 million
rose 8%, driven by better investment grade and asset-backed activity. We
ranked first in equity and equity-related underwriting and ranked second in
high-yield debt underwriting and leveraged lending.
FICC net revenues were $4 billion. Within intermediation, revenues in rates
and mortgages were significantly lower versus the first quarter of last year as
results were impacted by a tougher market-making backdrop. This was
partially offset by significantly better results in currencies and commodities,
illustrating the benefits of having a global diversified franchise. We produced
FICC financing revenues of $1.1 billion. We remain confident in our ability to
prudently grow this business over time.
Equities net revenues were a record $5.3 billion. Equities intermediation
revenues of $2.7 billion rose 7% even versus very strong results last year,
driven by better performance in cash products. Record Equities financing
revenues of $2.6 billion were 59% higher year-over-year with particular
strength in Asia amid another record for average prime balances in the
quarter.
As we highlighted in last quarter's strategic update, Asia is one of the key
growth opportunities for our FICC and Equities businesses. And while there's
still work to do, we're pleased by the progress to date. Across FICC and
Equities, financing revenues of $3.7 billion rose 36% versus the prior year and
comprised nearly 40% of total FICC and Equities revenues.
Let's turn to Page 5. Asset & Wealth Management revenues were $4.1 billion.
Management and other fees were up 14% year-over-year to $3.1 billion,
primarily on higher average assets under supervision. Incentive fees were
$183 million, up year-over-year despite the volatile environment during the
quarter. Private banking and lending revenues were $638 million. Higher
lending results were more than offset by the impact of NIM compression as we
grew deposits in a more competitive rate environment in order to fund broader
firm activity. Consistent with our growth strategy, we also expanded our
lending to ultra-high net worth clients with balances rising to a record $46
billion.
Now moving to Page 6. Total assets under supervision ended the quarter at a
record $3.7 trillion. We saw $62 billion of long-term net inflows across asset
classes, representing our 33rd consecutive quarter of long-term fee-based net
inflows.
Turning to Page 7 on alternatives. Alternative AUS totaled $429 billion at the
end of the first quarter, driving $597 million in management and other fees.
Gross third-party alternatives fundraising was $26 billion in the quarter, putting
us on track towards our annual fundraising expectations.
On Page 8, Platform Solutions revenues were $411 million in the quarter,
down year-over-year, reflecting the move of the Apple portfolio to held for sale.
We expect revenues for the rest of the year to run lower, in line with seasonal
trends in the business.
On Page 9, firm-wide net interest income was $3.7 billion in the first quarter.
Our total loan portfolio at quarter end was $253 billion, up versus the fourth
quarter, primarily reflecting growth in corporate and other collateralized loans.
Our provision for credit losses of $315 million reflected growth and
impairments in our wholesale lending portfolio.
Turning to expenses on Page 10. Total quarterly operating expenses were
$10.4 billion, resulting in an efficiency ratio of 60.5%. Our compensation ratio
net of provisions was 32%. Non-compensation expenses were $5 billion, with
the vast majority of the year-over-year increase driven by higher transaction-
based expenses tied to robust activity levels, particularly in Equities.
As David referenced, we are thoughtfully building out our One Goldman Sachs
3.0 work streams, and our early learnings have reinforced the need to double
down on the foundational elements of our infrastructure. We are, therefore,
accelerating our investments in cloud migration, and in the accuracy,
completeness and timeliness of our data. These investments are critical to
optimizing the deployment of AI solutions across the firm, which will allow us to
unlock greater productivity and efficiency opportunities over time.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter of 13.2% benefited from the impact of
employee stock-based compensation. For the full year, we expect a tax rate of
approximately 20%.
Now on to Slide 11. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 12.5% at the end of
the first quarter under the standardized approach, 110 basis points above our
current capital requirement of 11.4%. We saw attractive opportunities to deploy
capital across the firm, including in prime brokerage and acquisition financing.
These activities, in addition to the increase in market risk RWAs amid higher
market volatility consumed a portion of our excess capital. Additionally, we
returned $6.4 billion to common shareholders, including record common stock
repurchases of $5 billion and common stock dividends of $1.4 billion. We will
continue to dynamically deploy capital to support our client franchise, while
also returning capital to shareholders.
As David mentioned, we're encouraged by the direction of the recent Basel III
finalization and G-SIB surcharge reproposals, which reflect a more balanced
and risk-sensitive approach than earlier iterations.
In conclusion, our performance reflects the diversification and strength of our
leading client franchises, which enable us to serve clients in a volatile market.
We are confident in our ability to continue to support our clients as they
navigate this dynamic operating environment.
With that, we'll now open up the line for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Glenn Schorr with
Evercore.
Glenn Schorr
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
So, I guess, I would love it if you could expand a little bit on, let's just call it,
balance sheet strategy because I see you deploying capital, it's reducing the
denominator. But when the CET drops 180 basis points, a lot of people ask
questions. So let's just go towards the deposit strategy, deposits grew a lot. I'm
assuming that's to finance -- equity financing. So I'm curious how you think
about the trade-off of lower NII in Asset & Wealth, but growing financing. And I
guess that feeds into your Asia strategy. So sorry to put a bunch in there, but it
all overlaps each other. So maybe you could just expand a little bit on that.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure, Glenn. Thank you for that. So I think I would take you back to our
strategic update that we gave at the end of the year, where we tried to lay out
our expectations for how we were going to respond to the changes in the
capital regulation. And that in particular, we'd be focused on deploying into the
client franchise to support a bunch of our more durable revenue stream
activities with lending being at the top of the list. And as we sit now at the end
of the first quarter, you will see that we significantly expanded our activities in
Equities financing, and a particular area of strategic focus was Asia,
something that we also did call out at that time where we had identified a
competitive gap, we saw an attractive opportunity and with the excess
capacity that we saw ourselves with, we deployed into that with clients and
grew our revenues.
I also note that we recorded a record level of lending balances in private
wealth. We continue to grow FICC financing, we grew our corporate balances,
acquisition financing. All of these were the items that we called out as the
priority areas for deployment, and we saw opportunities over the course of the
quarter to do that. I would be remiss if we didn't mention that we also
aggressively returned capital to shareholders with a record level of buybacks.
So the balance sheet growth was largely in support of those client activities
that I just referenced.
Separately, you're right, we did have significant deposit raising activity over the
course of the quarter. That remains a strategic source of funding for us that we
continue to grow. A lot of that growth did derive through the Marcus platform,
which is a benefit to the firm. Some of that activity supports activities in AWM,
but as you call out, it supports overall firm-wide lending activities, and it was a
strategic priority for us to extend more lending on behalf of clients across the
firm, and we try to finance it as efficiently as we possibly can.
Glenn Schorr
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division
Okay. Maybe the two-second follow-up is the net of that is -- I'm going to ask it
as a question, is just -- is all the net of that deployment in lending, will that
come at ROEs that are in line with your long-term goals?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
So you'll obviously see that the ROE performance for the firm, the ROE
performance for Global Banking & Markets, north of 22% in the case of Global
Banking & Markets, where a lot of that deployment is happening. So across
our portfolio of activities, we are generating very attractive returns on that
incremental amount of lending activity.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Ebrahim Poonawala with Bank of America.
Ebrahim Poonawala
BofA Securities, Research Division
I guess, I just wanted to take a step back. A lot happened during the quarter.
So David, I appreciate your remarks around the 30-year track record for
Goldman in private credit. But if you don't mind, I think there is a sense that
private credit is a significant growth driver for Goldman. For our benefit, given
just the growth in this asset class, give us a sense of how you see this
potentially impacting sponsor activity when it comes to M&A IPO, as we think
about the next year, FICC financing has been a big focus with investors
around how that growth may slow down. So I would love some color around
how you think this actually coming home to impacting your growth outlook?
And if anything, on credit that you're particularly watching out for?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Sure. I mean it's a big picture question, and I could -- I appreciate the
question, and I could talk about it for a long time. I think there have been
attempts to try to put this in perspective. I know the media headlines have
driven an enormous amount of negative sentiment around private credit. My
own view is it's important to really distinguish between different markets and
really try to put it all in perspective. I think you guys know this that there --
private credit and the broadest definition you could possibly come up with is
about $3.5 trillion of assets. But the thing that's been getting a lot of focus is
direct lending and direct lending is about $1.6 trillion to $1.7 trillion of assets,
of which the retail channel for that direct lending business is about 20% or
about $230 billion of NAV.
There are obviously heightened redemptions in certain peer managed funds.
These peer managed funds have been concentrated in retail outflows as
opposed to institutional outflows. And one of the things that we're seeing that's
just interesting that's quite constructive for our business is that spreads are
becoming more lender-friendly. And so when you look at our first quarter 2026
subscriptions in our GS credit BDC, 40% of them were from institutions, many
of whom are first-time investors on our platforms, including insurance
companies, banks, pension funds.
And when you look at our broad platform, it's over 80% institutional partners
very, very broad, very, very diverse. And we've been growing it over a long
period of time. You obviously saw our positive inflows and what we raised
privately in the quarter, we feel we're very well positioned and actually the
opportunity set to some degree, is improving.
I know people are very focused on the cycle, and they should be. This has
been a long period of time ex the COVID shutdown, it's been a long period of
time without, what I'd call, a normal credit cycle, meaning a meaningful
slowdown in the economy, or a recession. Whenever you have a meaningful
slowdown in the economy or a recession, there are higher loss levels in
diversified credit portfolios. I think risk management and portfolio construction
are very important in places where people haven't followed their portfolio
construction carefully and they've gotten overweighted to a particular sector.
They'll obviously have more headwinds.
But I don't -- I think one of the things that's really not getting a lot of attention is
if you do have a cycle, what does that look like? And so if you take a very
tough cycle, the global financial crisis, the cumulative default rates across the
entire leverage lending space, the entire leverage lending space during the
global financial crisis was 10%, recoveries were about 50%, so the cumulative
loss was 5% to 6% against coupons of 9% to 10%. And so that is the business
model of this.
I think institutional investors understand that. I think there's going to continue
to be some noise around the retail space. I think you should watch that
carefully. But I think this continues with any sort of a medium-term or longer-
term view to be a very, very attractive platform for us, and we are very
confident that we have significant runway to further scale our business toward
our $300 billion target. We've seen significant fundraising across the all
platforms, including this past quarter, $10 billion in credit. And so we're going
to continue to grow our institutional business and take a long-term view, but it
remains -- I wouldn't say it's a huge growth channel for us, but it's a business
that's growing, and we think has good secular construct for a scaled platform
like ours.
Ebrahim Poonawala
BofA Securities, Research Division
Very comprehensive. If I can, a quick follow-up. Banks CEOs were in D.C. on
Friday around -- concerns around some of the AI-driven risks to banking
infrastructure. Anything you can share with us in terms of like is this something
extremely different than what banks have had to deal with over the last
decade? To the extent you can share any color, I think that would be helpful.
And how do you perceive the risk to Goldman Sachs?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. So thank you for that. Obviously, something we're focused on. I just -- I
want to start by saying that cybersecurity has long been at the core of our
business, and we have for a very, very long time for enormous resources
forward to think constantly about cybersecurity risk in our business, and it's
something we've invested significantly in and continue to invest in. And it's
been widely reported, the large bank CEOs happen to be in Washington for a
regular meeting in the Financial Services Forum. And so we were asked to
come over to treasury. By the way, it's not the first meeting that, that group has
gone over to treasury to talk about cybersecurity risk over a number of years.
So my first point is this is something the industry is focused on. It's something
we're focused on, and there's nothing new in that focus. Obviously, the LLM
are making rapid progress, and we're hyper aware of the enhanced
capabilities of these new models. With the help of the U.S. government and
the model publishers, we are very focused on supplementing our cyber and
infrastructure resilience and this is part of our ongoing capabilities that we
have been investing in and are accelerating our investment in.
We're aware of Mythos, and its capabilities. We have the model. We're
working closely with Anthropic. And all of our security vendors to kind of
harness frontier capabilities wherever it is possible, and this will continue to be
an important focus, but it's not new that as technology evolves, we have to
continue to upgrade for cyber risk and make sure we're at the forefront of that.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Erika Najarian with UBS.
L. Erika Penala
UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
David, if you could just unpack a little bit your outlook on the pipeline. I know
back in February, we talked about the sponsor community and their thoughts
on valuation versus timing. Obviously, a lot has happened more on the
negative since then on valuation. But maybe just unpack on how your thoughts
are relative to timing. I mean, despite the conflict in the Middle East, markets
still near all-time highs. So I would love to hear thoughts on that.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Sure. And I appreciate it, and I realize, Erika, this is getting a lot of attention.
And I'd just say, first of all, the environment for Investment Banking activity
continues to be incredibly robust, particularly M&A activity. And I do think, as I
talk to CEOs, of course, they're watching what's going on geopolitically. But
that's also balanced by the fact that they see an opportunity during this period
of time to drive scale and scale creation in businesses with significant
technological change, and they are focused on that. And that candidly trumps
some of the geopolitical risk as they have the opportunity to do consolidating
trades. And you saw that in the first quarter, you saw more large-scale
strategic M&A. We highlighted at the end of the first quarter, the high level of
our backlog, the highest level in 4 years. And then you saw extraordinary
accruals during this quarter in M&A.
And you also saw extraordinary replenishment, okay? The backlog really did
not move very significantly at all even though we had extraordinary accruals.
And so we continue to see significant activity on the M&A front. And I don't
see, unless the overall environment got much, much worse. I don't see that
slowing based on what we see at the moment.
That said, there is no question that with the conflict in the Middle East, IPO
activity slowed a little bit, particularly in March. I do think there's a very full
pipeline. And at the end of the day, equity markets have been extremely
resilient and if that resilience continues, I do think you'll see IPO activity
accelerate again. There are some very large IPOs that are lined up, and my
expectation is a number of them are going to come because it's important for
those businesses and for the capital formation around those businesses for
that to happen, and they are also less sensitive to kind of short-term
geopolitical trends.
I do think that the level of uncertainty is higher, so we have to watch that
carefully. Certainly talking actively to CEOs and CEOs are looking carefully at
how what's going on, particularly with commodity prices is translating into the
economy and into consumer demand. I think it's fair to say that people did not
see that really translating through in the first quarter, but that doesn't mean
that people aren't extremely cautious about whether or not it will translate
through in the second quarter.
My guess is to the degree that energy prices remain high, you will see that
translate through a little bit. But at this point, the underlying economy still
remains relatively robust. But if the resolution of the conflict drags, that
probably will be a headwind in some of these areas particularly inflation trends
as we get further into the second and the third quarter. And so we'll have to
watch that quickly.
At the moment, M&A and capital markets have been pretty resilient to that,
and the environment continues to be quite constructive. But of course, I don't
have a crystal ball. I and also all the market participants are watching and
adapting as they see things unfold.
L. Erika Penala
UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
And just to follow up, on Ebrahim's line of questioning because I think it's so
important for the stock and the stock of your peers. But given everything you
said, David, during the financial crisis, the cum loss rate in leverage lending
was 5% to 6%. You're seeing more lender-friendly spreads, no issues with
fundraising, especially on the institutional side. It seems that if we do have a
regular waste cycle or even just something sector-specific like software in
terms of marks, that the ultimate loss to Goldman will be de minimis but the
opportunity in terms of spreads and market share could be notable. Is that the
correct conclusion?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
I'm going to make a couple of comments on that. And I'm also going to ask
Denis to make a comment just about historical losses. But I think, Erika, you
understand it right. Remember, we're generally dealing with institutions. And
one of the things that happens, if we had a slowdown in the economy or a
recession where credit spreads widened, the business actually for institutional
investors, becomes more attractive. And that is a point in time, institutions rely
on Goldman Sachs who's been at this for a long, long time to have the
judgment to be more cautious on their deployment when spreads are
historically tight and more aggressive on deployment when spreads are
historically wide.
And one of the things that I think has not been talked about a lot over the
course of a number of years because we haven't seen it, a lot of the alpha
that's generated in credit businesses comes from how the investors manage
restructuring and buy in when things are tough, but we haven't had a cycle like
that. I do think we all have to recognize that this has been a very long credit
cycle and when credit cycles go on longer, market participants, this is a
generalization, this is not the way we think about the business, but spreads get
tighter, market participants get more aggressive to deploy capital. And so
when you do have a cycle turn in a recession, you will see higher losses
across the space than you would have had if it was a shorter cycle. And so we
have to be cognizant of that.
That said, we feel very good about the way we're positioned, very good about
our track record, very good about our flows. And to the degree there was a
cycle, we'd actually view it as an opportunity for Goldman Sachs.
And Denis, maybe you want to comment a little bit more on historical loss
rates.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Yes. I mean, Erika, I could add to another area that we get questions for
obvious reasons is across the FICC financing, the asset secured lending
portfolio of the firm where a lot of those clientele are in the alternative space.
And we have a big diversified business that we've been growing and it's
providing part of the ballast to our overall GBM revenues. But if we look back
over the course of history on our FICC financing activities, our life-to-date
realized losses, if you exclude some direct commercial real estate, our life-to-
date realized losses are 0. So that's obviously a "nexus" with private credit as
a subcomponent of that portfolio and people ask about it a lot. And that may
not always be the case. But so far, the way that we underwrite that portfolio,
the way we run the stresses, the way that we focus on our collateral
protection, our covenant structures, our margining capabilities, that portfolio
has realized losses of 0.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with Wells Fargo.
Michael Mayo
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Can you comment on the increase in the provisions in Global Banking &
Markets? It seems like that increase was a lot more than the growth in the
balance sheet and that the increase is almost equals what, like I guess, like
3/4 of the increase from last year. So is that to some degree is consistent with
the growth in the balance sheet. But to what degree are you putting aside
extra provisions for problem losses due to macro concerns or things that
you're seeing out there? And to what degree maybe you're sending a signal,
hey, things might not remain as good.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. Appreciate that question, Mike, and you actually answered it for yourself,
but I'll do it for you back. So the composition of that PCL build was, in part,
attributable to growth. So as I went through earlier on the call, we grew lending
activities in the first quarter across the firm. That increased lending activity
attracts provisions. We also did have impairments, single name impairments
across the portfolio, which we have typically, we have those impairments as
well, and we have adjustments for the overall operating environment and the
outlook.
So it was really the combination of those three things that come together for
that PCL build. I kind of answered it on the previous question, but if there was
a question as to whether that PCL relates to private credit somehow or relates
to our FICC financing business, the answer is no. It was growth across the
various lending streams, at least not from a default or credit impairment
perspective, that sort of broader lending growth in the GBM segment.
Michael Mayo
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
And then a separate question, to what point -- at what point do investors kind
of put their pencils down? It sounds like they're not that people are still trading
and engaging and have high activity levels. But do you see a difference
between the engagement with corporates as opposed to everybody else and
investors and the whole ecosystem? In other words, my question really is, are
corporates more engaged? And is there some derisking out in investor land?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
So first, at a high level, Mike, I think people are very engaged, okay? Across
the franchise, corporates, investors, very, very engaged. I think it's an
interesting moment because there's so much going on in the world of
technology and innovation and so much around that space that people are
extremely engaged in understanding how that creates opportunities for
enterprise, how that shifts investment thesis, and we're not seeing any decline
or pencils down, as you suggested.
I will say the corporate world, and I highlighted this before, is incredibly
engaged right now because they don't operate in the short-term noise, they
operate over the long term. And they believe they have an opportunity to drive
scale and consolidation and they haven't had it for a previous administration.
And so they're focused on that. I expect that to continue.
Obviously, and as I said before, I don't have a crystal ball, if the macro
situation gets bumpier for a short-term period of time, that can have short-term
effects on investor behavior. But I'd say at this point, people are very actively
engaged. And look, we're only a couple of weeks into the quarter, but the
quarter has started with very significant engagement across all aspects of the
business. Quarter has started in a positive way. We'll see. Level of uncertainty
is higher. But at the moment, the engagement is pretty high.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Steven Chubak with Wolfe Research.
Steven Chubak
Wolfe Research, LLC
So I'm going to take this in a slightly different direction. I wanted to ask on the
efficiency outlook. You'd indicated some front-loading of infrastructure
investments, cloud migration in advance of AI-driven investments that you plan
on making. Just given all the investments that you cited in terms of what you're
deploying on the platform. How should we think about the trajectory of non-
comms, that $5 billion baseline is a little bit higher than what we've seen in
recent quarters. And just bigger picture, how that informs the timing for when
you can reach that 60% efficiency goal or if it impacts it at all?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. Thanks, Steve. It's Denis. I'll take that. So obviously, we continue to
make progress on the efficiency ratio overall, slight improvement on a year-
over-year basis, and we remain laser-focused on driving towards the 60%
level. We did have a higher level of non-compensation expenses. But if you
pull apart the year-over-year delta, it was rough magnitude, $650 million of the
$750 million increase was attributable to transaction-based expenses. And we
talked about how we've been growing the overall activity, particularly across
Equities, particularly in Asia. If you look at some of the BC&E expenses, if you
look at the stamp duty expenses, we have some distribution fees in AWM,
there were high levels of client activity that we executed across the quarter
and some of that comes with transaction-based expenses.
So we remain focused on doing what we can on the unit cost elements of
transaction-based expenses. And as in prior years, have dedicated work
streams to driving benefit from a unit cost perspective, but the overall volumes,
which is reflected in the record results for the equity business, obviously came
with transaction expenses.
As it relates to the overall investment profile, we are continuing to make
investments to drive longer-term efficiencies and the more we focus and do
work on it, we appreciate that having greater capacity to migrate activities to
the cloud and to harness a lot of value from data sets augurs for investment
now to drive unlock in future periods. So that also features in our thinking. But
at the same time, we're looking at other areas where we can reduce expenses.
So there's categories of our overall operating expenses, which were moving
down by more than double-digit percentages on a period basis as we look to
get more efficient. So there's sort of puts and takes across it, and we remain
focused on driving towards the 60% efficiency ratio.
Steven Chubak
Wolfe Research, LLC
Got it. And for my follow-up, just on the Fed's capital proposal, I was hoping
you could provide some at least preliminary guidance on the three bigger
buckets of proposed changes, whether it's the adjustments to the RWA
calculation first? Second, the G-SIB surcharge and the proposed changes
there? And then third, how the elimination of double counting could provide
some relief going forward? And just trying to gauge like how that informs
where you're comfortable running on CET1 versus the current ratio of 12.5%.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Okay, sure. So as David said in his remarks, we're following the reproposals
closely. We do expect to comment. We are encouraged by the direction of
travel, but we will have comments, and we think there is room for further
improvement. Double count is definitely an area of focus for us, particularly as
it relates to op risk. We think there's further enhancements that can be made
to FRTB and CVA across the proposals. We think G-SIB, again, making
progress, perhaps not recalibrated as far as it could have been, but making
the right directional changes.
As it relates to impact on the firm and how we're calibrated, we start the
second quarter at 12.5% from a CET1 perspective, 110 basis points of
cushion, which is basically at the, call it, the wide end or just outside our
typical operating range, and we think that's an appropriate level. It gives us
capacity to step in and support the types of client activities that we continue to
see coming through the franchise, gives us capacity to continue returning
capital to shareholder. And I would say, finally, based on everything that we
see, we think is a prudent place to be as some of those regulatory proposals
get refined and finalized.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Brennan Hawken with BMO Capital Markets.
Brennan Hawken
BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
David, you spoke to strategic activity and how robust it is in banking. Curious
to hear your thoughts on what you've been seeing as far as sponsors are
concerned. We've heard a great deal in recent years about building pressure
for sponsors to sell. And so how big of a setback is the valuation reset and
tighter financing markets to that cohort?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. I mean, Brennan, this is something that continues to get lots of attention.
And it's sponsor activity out of the private equity section of sponsors and
again, I want to highlight that that's a small universe when you think about
overall capital markets activity broadly, that sponsor activity has been slower. I
do think it will continue to accelerate. But it's -- when you look at the overall
performance, again, I think one of the things we just want to highlight, we've
been working very hard for the last 7 or 8 years to really build a larger, much
more scaled, diversified business with more steady streams in it.
And I think this quarter is a great, great example. There was not -- sponsor
activity did not accelerate this quarter the way we might have thought given
the way things felt when we had the last earnings call in January. But at the
same point, it was the best Global Banking & Markets quarter ever for the firm.
And so it was a very, very good quarter, even with weak sponsor activity. It's a
big, broad, diversified business. Obviously, there's a tailwind that's coming
when sponsor activity turns on. It will turn on. These sponsors do not own the
capital, the LPs own the capital. They will have to return it to them. So it's been
slower than we'd expect, but the business is big and broad enough and
diversified that even with that slower sponsor activity, it's not had a big impact
on the overall business.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
The other thing I would add, a lot of those comments relate to monetization
and exit activity, which we're very focused on, which ripples through the firm in
a variety of places. But at a certain point, you have asset price adjustments in
one industry or another, and all of a sudden, it presents opportunities for
sponsors to actually redeploy some of the dry powder that they've been
husbanding for some period of time. All of a sudden, public to private become
back in focus. And so while there could be given the uncertainty of the war,
some slowdown in IPO-type monetization, that doesn't mean that the
sophisticated sponsors of the world aren't thinking much like some of the well-
capitalized corporates as to whether or not they can't take advantage of some
of the dislocation. So there's multiple ways to think about it.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Absolutely.
Brennan Hawken
BMO Capital Markets Equity Research
Great. And Denis, I'd love to follow up on your comments on FICC financing.
Do you have any color on what proportion of your FICC financing exposure is
tied to direct lending counterparts? I know it will probably fluctuate within a
range, but maybe a rough idea of how to think about the bookends.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
So it really is a question of categorization. So there are underlying sponsors
and alt managers to whom we extend our FICC financing from like -- we think
about it on an underlying asset class perspective because a lot of these
bilaterally extended loans are collateralized by an underlying pool of loans to
discrete end markets, residential, mortgages, consumer finance assets,
private credit assets, private equity assets. So we run capital call facilities.
These are all subcomponents of FICC financing and the entire book is well
diversified against each of those end asset class pools, and we underwrite the
loans with different sort of underwriting and risk parameters based on stresses
we see for the various sort of end asset class.
So I don't think it -- first and foremost, we run it on a diversified basis, but it
doesn't lend itself to the same kind of sort of portfolio concentration risk, if you
have idiosyncratic bilateral structured credit extension, where you have the
capacity in each discrete situation to set the protections that you think are
appropriate for the underlying risk.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Manan Gosalia with Morgan Stanley.
Manan Gosalia
Morgan Stanley, Research Division
I just wanted to follow up on the expense question. The comp ratio on adjusted
revenues was down from the usual 33% in the first quarter. I know you
typically true-up based on the environment at the end of the year, but is the
year-on-year change so far being driven by One GS 3.0 and the AI
investments you're making? And is it a signal for the direction for the full year?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Manan and welcome to the call. Look, on the comp ratio, we grew our
revenue significantly. And we remain, as I said earlier, very, very focused on
driving the firm towards the 60% efficiency ratio. So given the uptick in
revenue, given our outlook, we did bring the ratio down 100 basis points
versus where we had set it in the first quarter last year, but we have a different
amount of revenue and a different outlook. We obviously will adjust that as we
go through the year based on our expectations for the full year. But currently,
that's our best estimate for how we expect to pay. We remain to be -- we
remain very much paid for performance. That underpins everything. Talent
remains very dear, and we're very focused on attracting and retaining the best
talent. That's what's required for us to deliver these results for clients. But
we're also focused on operating the firm as efficiently as we can. So 32% is
our best estimate balancing those objectives.
Manan Gosalia
Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Great. And can you expand on what drove the weaker FICC intermediation
revenues this quarter? You noted lower rates, mortgage and credit. Was that
driven by a tougher year-on-year comp? Was it specifically driven by the
higher geopolitical risks? Or is there any specific client behavior that you're
seeing that may spill into the rest of this year?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. Thanks, Manan. So as we say many times on this call, when we look in
particular at components of our FICC portfolio, we remain very, very committed
to having a leading presence across all of the sub-asset classes and
continuing to do that on a global basis. In the last quarter, in the first quarter of
this year, relative to the first quarter previously, we saw significant increased
activity and more strength in the commodities business and more strength in
the currency business, but mortgages and rates were lower. That was
basically just a function of the overall environment making markets. We have
big activities across all of those activities. We remain actively engaged with
clients. But our performance in rates and mortgages were relatively lower.
Performance in currencies and commodities was relatively stronger.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
I think it's just also -- I'd just add, Manan, it's also -- a lot of this has to do with
expectations that are set in the research community. This FICC performance
still has to be put in context, it was the 10th best FICC quarter ever out of 100-
and-some-odd quarters. And when I look at the scale and the diversity of the
business, it's performing very, very well. So we obviously had a very, very
strong comp in the first quarter last year. It is 29% better than the last quarter
we had in the fourth quarter of the year, but it was close to a top decile FICC
quarter. It certainly was a top quartile FICC quarter.
And what you're seeing, if you go back. Again, I want to go back and highlight,
we've worked hard to scale the business, make it more diversified. If you go
back 15, 20 years ago, we could not have a quarter like this with a quarter
where FICC looked a little bit weaker because FICC was such an important
component of the business. It's now a much more diversified business. FICC
performed well in the quarter. And you look at the overall performance, the
overall performance was obviously quite strong. Some quarters, it's going to
be stronger here, stronger there.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Daniel Fannon
Jefferies LLC, Research Division
In terms of private banking and lending, you talked about some of the moving
parts in terms of deposit spreads as well as higher lending balances. So
curious about the outlook there? And what is the reasonable goal as you think
about penetration of lending within your wealth business? How to think about
that in terms of the aggregate opportunity?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Great. Thanks very much. So look, I think our performance in that piece of
AWM is in line with what we've been trying to achieve. So obviously, continue
the lending penetration, record balances of $46 billion. I think we still have a
long way to go. I think there's a lot more that we can do for clients in that
segment, and we are making progress, but it's going to take time to actually
meet the -- all of our ambitions for penetrating that segment. We're
aggressively offering the capabilities. And I think more and more clients are
coming to appreciate the value that it adds. So we feel good that we've taken
that to record levels, but we think there's a lot more to do.
And we also remain very committed to growing the deposit balances across
the segment. We're also able to do that very, very successfully. There is an
impact from the more competitive environment for deposit raising. And we do
expect that will persist as a headwind for much of 2026, but we would expect
as we move into 2027, we will be back growing that segment, high double
digits from a sort of durable revenue perspective. Our aggregate durable
revenues in AWM were up high single digits for this most recent period, but it
was a function of sort of more strength on the management fee line and less
performance in the private banking and lending line, and we'd expect that to
improve towards the end of the year heading into 2027.
Daniel Fannon
Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Great. And as a follow-up, obviously, a strong quarter on fundraising for the
alts again. Can you talk specifically about what strategies in credit got you the
$10 billion? And as you think about the rest of the year, do you see credit as
being as big of a contributor to growth or given some of the headlines and
dynamics that likely is to see some moderation?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
So coming out of our strategic update, we obviously gave guidance in terms of
the aggregate alts assets under supervision target that we put out there for
2030 of $750 billion. We put out that annual fundraising target of $75 billion to
$100 billion. Our platform is highly diversified. So we have success raising
across corporate equity strategies, across credit strategies, across real estate,
across hedge funds, et cetera, et cetera. And within credit we have a variety of
different strategies that we can raise on based on level of the capital structure,
type of risk profile, geographic location of the fund, et cetera. So we have
multiple -- sort of multiple pillars that we're focused on continuing to drive the
alts fundraising. It can vary from quarter-to-quarter in terms of putting together
the full year results.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Devin Ryan with Citizens Bank.
Devin Ryan
Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Just another question on artificial intelligence. Obviously, I think investors are
going business by business, just trying to understand implications. And so it'd
be good just to hear how you're thinking about what businesses will be most
impacted, and just whether AI overall as an accelerant for Goldman Sachs like
it has been -- or technology cycles in the past have been? And just how you're
thinking about it even broad strokes would be helpful.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. Yes. I appreciate the question, Devin. And it's -- I am hugely forward
leaning on the power of this technology to accelerate growth and efficiency in
Goldman Sachs and allow us to more aggressively invest in growth in areas of
our business where, for a variety of reasons, over the course of the last 5
years, we've been more constrained than I think we're going to be for the next
5 years. I think this is true not only with Goldman Sachs, I think this is true with
lots of other businesses with enterprises broadly, and as enterprises take
advantage of that, that spurs activity that feeds into the Goldman Sachs
ecosystem.
So I do think as in other technology super cycles, this is extraordinarily
constructive for Goldman Sachs. It's one of the reasons why when I think
about the firm over the next 3 to 5 years, and I think about the growth
trajectory of the firm that we're driving for, I can't -- I don't have a crystal ball to
predict short-term uncertainty and short-term volatility, but I have a high
degree of confidence. When I look out over 3 to 5 years as to how we can
continue to grow the firm, serve our clients more broadly and accelerate our
investment in areas of business where we see real opportunities to grow. And I
mean I'd point to one like private wealth, for example, where we see still very,
very significant opportunities given the nature of our private wealth franchise to
grow.
It will not be a straight line whenever you have acceleration in new technology,
there are going to be bumps and there are going to be risk issues, and there
are going to be recalibrations. I'm sure we'll see that in the coming years as it
scales. But the power that tests technology, the ability to use it in an enterprise
to remake processes, to create efficiencies and also create more capacity to
invest in growth, I can't find a CEO that's not talking about that and all of that
with a medium-term lens when you get out of the short-term moment and
noise is incredibly constructive for Goldman Sachs.
Devin Ryan
Citizens JMP Securities, LLC, Research Division
Okay. A quick follow-up, Denis, just on Asia and the success you've been
having there. Obviously, really positive progression over time here. So just the
gap that you talked about that you're closing, where are you in that? Is there
still opportunity to accelerate? Or do you kind of close that gap with the big
step-up that you had this quarter?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
So we think we've made progress, but we are constantly reassessing each
and every region of the world and each subproduct line gap that we think we
may have relative to the potential. There were constraints on the aggregate
quantum and type of resources that we could deploy to accelerate those
activities, given some of the changes in capital rules, we moved quickly to do
that for clients in the first quarter, and you can see it coming through in the
results. I would expect versus what we're looking at, we would have closed the
gap, but I do expect there's still a lot more for us to do. So I think good
progress but more to do across Asia.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Matthew O'Connor
Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
I wanted to follow up on AWM, the long-term flows. You showed on Slide 6,
just really good balance between the three channels. But I wanted to kind of
dig into what's tracking a little bit better than what you laid out last quarter. I
think you were targeting about 5% flows. We've got 3 quarters in a row of
about 7%, a little boost from the deal this quarter. But just overall, it seems like
it's tracking better than that target you had and wondering what the drivers of
that are?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. So we -- that was one of the new targets that we put out in the strategic
update just to both focus your attention on the overall quality of our wealth
business and frankly, focus our people internally on that target as well. It is an
annual target. We do have a 5% LTFBA annual target. First quarter delivered
9%. So you're right, we're quite significantly ahead of the target in one quarter,
but that could ebb and flow from one quarter to the next.
But I would say we're -- to David's comments on sort of just thinking about
overall levels of engagement across the firm. That's not confined to traditional
realm of Investment Banking or even FICC and Equities. There's strong levels
of engagement across our Asset & Wealth Management business, and we're
seeing good support across the wealth channel, happens to be well ahead of
target for this quarter, but we'll be continuing to focus on driving it as high as
we possibly can over the balance of the year.
Matthew O'Connor
Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
And then any early benefits from -- there's the three deals and partnerships
that you've announced in the last few months, T. Rowe, Industry and
Innovator, I think Innovator just closed. So -- but any early benefits from
those? And how should we think about the opportunity maybe going forward?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. We feel very, very good. We obviously just closed Innovator in the last
week. We feel very, very good about the partnership and the three deals -- and
the two deals, excuse me. And we're integrating the teams. The teams are
very excited and very focused on being here. I think the cool thing we
mentioned in the script about Innovator is it immediately positions us as 1 of
the top 10 active ETF providers. And obviously, in the active ETF space
continues to be very, very good secular growth.
I think with what's going on in technology, the strengthening of our positioning
around the venture community through Industry Ventures. We're seeing
enormous synergies in the business. And by the way, synergies in the wealth
business do out of that platform coming on board. But look, this is new, and I
don't want to overstate it, but we feel very, very good about the decisions
we've made on both the partnership with T. Rowe and the two acquisitions,
and we'll report more as we have more substantive things to tell you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Gerard Cassidy
RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Denis, you touched on in your comments about your CET1 ratio that you folks
have used the capital to grow the businesses across the firm and you
specifically highlighted acquisition financing. Obviously, as David pointed out,
you guys are the leader in M&A advice. Can you share with us the November
changes to the leverage ratios that the regulators did away with, has that
helped you guys become more competitive in acquisition financing? And
second, how much of the acquisition financing do you try to keep on your
books? Or do you try to syndicate it out to participants?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. I appreciate those questions, Gerard. So what goes hand in glove with
the uptick in strategic activity that David has been discussing and with a
particular focus on the corporate sector is that a lot of those transactions
require large-scale capital commitments. That's really what I'm referencing
with respect to acquisition financing. Yes, the changes in the capital
regulations give us more flexibility to deploy into that, but there are also a
timing elements. So in the same way that you can have an announced M&A
transact, you can report on announced volumes, you don't recognize revenue
until that M&A transaction closes. If you take on risk in an acquisition finance
book and you have that exposure on your books, you need to set aside the
appropriate amount of capital, but you won't be recognizing revenue
necessarily until the transaction funds or closes. So there are timing
mismatches or things to be aware of with respect to those items.
As it relates to acquisition financing, our general philosophy is to facilitate the
transaction to underwrite and distribute the paper into long-term holders of that
loan or bond instrument. We do retain some exposures to clients or as part of
an overall relationship banking philosophy. And from time to time, we can hold
other exposures as well, but the general base case assumptions that we
underwrite to distribute for most of the acquisition financing activity.
Gerard Cassidy
RBC Capital Markets, Research Division
Very good. And then to follow up on your comments that you made about the
PCL. You obviously identified the three areas of what drove the PCL on a
year-over-year basis, loan growth, the single name impairments and then the
operating environment. Can you give us more color on the single name
impairments, what types of credits were impaired? And then just from a
technical standpoint, do the impairments go through the net charge-off line?
Or is it through another line on the P&L?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Gerard, for your question. The growth piece is across the board.
The impairment piece is actually several very small sort of names. I don't think
it's particularly thematic. And then we have a sort of a general. We look at the
overall operating environment, and we want to make sure we have calibrated
the appropriate amount of reserves given the environment that we see.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Chris McGratty with KBW.
Christopher McGratty
Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
I want to go back to the change in the CET1, the 180 basis points linked
quarter. Certainly, I understand buybacks a piece of it. But I was wondering if
you could unpack or elaborate just a little bit more on the RWA growth by
product, anything unusual in the quarter, the $85 billion or so. Obviously, I
appreciate trading assets can move around. But I'm just trying to fully
understand the capital message relative to the 12.5% that you're at right now?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. Believe it or not, I use words, but all those words calibrate to numbers.
So the drivers of the CET1 delta of 180 is related to buybacks. And on RWA, it
resides with the biggest buckets are growth in prime financing, acquisition
financing and then market risk RWAs. Those are the three big buckets on the
RWA side and then add on to it the record level of return of capital to
shareholders, and that's what explains the quarterly delta in CET1.
Christopher McGratty
Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Okay. And the 12.5%, roughly 100 basis points is a reasonable buffer?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
It's 110 right now, and we think that, that's a reasonable buffer that gives us
flexibility along each of the three principal vectors that I identified, more client
activity, more return of capital to shareholders and appropriate flexibility
regardless of how the current proposed regulatory rules pan out.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Saul Martinez with HSBC.
Saul Martinez
HSBC Global Investment Research
I wanted to go back to the equity results and the strength there and ask a
question that I expect you guys are tired of answering, but the durability of
that, what is durable versus what is extraordinary. Your equity financing
revenue, $2.7 billion this quarter, that's more than double what it was in the
first quarter of '24. And the intermediation income is also well above what it
was even 5 years ago, 6 years ago, 2021 in the initial phases of the pandemic.
But -- and balance sheets are expanding. You mentioned investor engagement
remains robust. But is there a way -- how do you think about the risk here to
this level of revenues? What is extraordinary versus what is durable?
And I guess, a different way of asking is maybe what kind of environment
would be needed to see a reduction, lower results? And what kind of
environment would be needed to see sustaining these results and even
growing from here, albeit with much more tough -- much more difficult comps.
So I know a lot in there, but just the whole question of durability versus what's
extraordinary, what your thoughts are there?
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. I appreciate it. I think there's a couple of underlying drivers. So if you
take -- the way you frame your question, take a multiyear trend, market caps
around the world are expanding, equity trading activity and the participation by
a broad range of our clients has been expanding. We have had a concerted
effort to improve our market share position with leading clients across both
FICC and Equities. And we have been consistently fueling some of those
activities with balance sheet and capital commitments to support those client
activities. It's jumping off the page given some of the most recent increases,
which again, are a function of stepping up some of the capital deployment to
support that activity. And then the certain subsegments of the world that are
very, very attractive. So you have a slight shift in the mix profile.
So those are all the factors that are driving those activity levels consistently
higher. The flip side is also possible where you see significant drawdowns or a
much less active environment, if clients were looking for a lot less by way of
equity financing from us, then those activity levels would reverse.
But despite all of the various types of volatility we've seen over the last quarter
and the last number of years where markets go up and markets go down and
clients lever up and clients lever down, there still is a tremendous amount of
demand from clients for us to step in and support them with financing, and we
work very, very hard to both support clients but also be disciplined and
thoughtful about how and to whom we extend what types of financing so we
can continue to also deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
Saul Martinez
HSBC Global Investment Research
Okay. That's helpful. Maybe just a quick follow-up then on the question of
FICC results this quarter, obviously, some softness in rates and mortgages. It
sounds like this is more of a -- more generalizable about -- related to the
market backdrop as opposed to anything Goldman specific? Is that right? And
I did notice that VaR in rates did go up quite a bit. It was an area of softness.
Just any color there as to whether there's a reason for that divergence that is
notable.
Denis Coleman
Chief Financial Officer
Sure. So you're right, VaR was up across rates, VaR was up across
commodities. VaR, as you know, is a calculation that has a rolling 30-day
contributor based on volatility. And volatility across rates and commodities in
the first quarter went up, and that is what mathematically drives the change in
the VaR ratio.
Operator
We'll go next to Mike Mayo with Wells Fargo.
Michael Mayo
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Just a follow-up on the sponsor activity. And what percent is the sponsor
activity of your Investment Banking activity? I know you said it still hasn't come
back and that's potential upside in the future, but is it like 10% or 20% or
historical 33%? Where is that right now?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. I don't -- it's not a number we've disclosed, Mike, but obviously, in an
environment where we post an M&A quarter like the M&A quarter that we
posted, it's a smaller percentage, a meaningfully smaller percentage. I'm not
suggesting that it's not a meaningful business for the firm, but it's not a number
that we've specifically disclosed. And I would say it moves around based on
activity levels and based on what's going on. But again, I come back to the
point, sponsor is important. It's a huge client base. We do a lot with sponsors.
By the way, we did a lot with sponsors this quarter, but it is a big diverse
business. And you look at the overall performance, we can have one sector be
weaker than we would have liked and still have very strong performance.
And so this is an example where we had very strong banking performance
with a weaker sponsor performance than I might have thought 3 months ago,
but it didn't affect the overall strength of the banking performance.
Michael Mayo
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
And to be fair, you've talked about sponsors for a few years. Look, your
mergers are there, you're #1, we get it. But you've talked about sponsors for a
few years and you had another CEO talk about over 10,000 large companies
that remain private, even with record high stock markets. So why is that?
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Why do they remain private?
Michael Mayo
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Yes.
David Solomon
Chairman & CEO
Yes. I mean, look, I mean, a couple of things. First of all, Mike, I think one of
the things that's just interesting to put in perspective, is when we're talking
about sponsors in this context, I think you're talking about private equity. And
so remember, sponsors do a lot of things. They do infrastructure, they do real
estate, they do credit. I mean it's a bigger thing. But if we look at -- they do
growth equity, when you look at private equity, the rough enterprise value,
meaning equity and debt of all the private equity-owned companies is like $4
trillion. So it's less than one NVIDIA. So let's just start there when we're talking
about capital and capital flows to put that in some perspective.
I think one of the reasons why the private equity firms have been slower to
monetize is the economic incentives that are set up, give them optionality to
wait. And we had a dynamic where values in private equity portfolios got
marked up meaningfully in 2020 and 2021 because of that cycle and making
no comments on where they're marked it raised expectations around
monetization and people are waiting. And by the way, as the economy grows,
the world grows, a lot of these businesses do grow into those valuations. And
the way the incentive system works, they really -- really the only optionality
LPs have to put pressure on GPs is to not participate in the next fund.
And so I do think there's some pressure that's mounting. I do think you'll see
more activity, but at the end of the day, they've been a little -- they've been
slower and they've been taking that optionality.
Now that said, I think a lot of activity will come over time. We're very well
positioned for it. And again, I just want to -- when you look at this whole
ecosystem and how things are working, it's a pretty constructive investment
banking ecosystem at the moment. Obviously, if the sponsors in private equity
turned on, it would be even more constructive for us. But it's pretty
constructive at the moment as we look at it.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude our question-and-answer
session and also concludes the Goldman Sachs First Quarter 2026 Earnings
Conference Call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Read more current GS analysis and news
View all earnings call transcripts
Comments Sort by
Newest
If you type a company or ETF ticker symbol in capital letters we will automatically link to the symbol
page. You can remove the link by deleting the $ in the comment.
To report an error in this transcript, click here. Contact us to add your company to our coverage or
use transcripts in your business. Learn more about Seeking Alpha transcripts. Your feedback matters
to us!